Help and manual for the function included in the NIMA Package.


1) PlotInputMatrix(x, index_nominal,
                      index_numeric,
                      color = NULL,
                      verbose = FALSE)
                      
                      
This function get a data frame or a matrix in the long format (tabular row wise) and the indecies for the  naminal columns (row and columns respecfully) and the index for the numerical value (the values inside the matrix), and returns the matrix format of the input. Additionally, this function plots the heatmap of the constructed matrix and present the missing values in white color if they do exist in the matrix format. 
Input Variables:

x: a given matrix in the long (row wise) format which at least have 3 columns. The columns' names should be specified as the selection of the rows ids, columns ids, and coresponding values are done by column names.

index_nominal: the index of the columns that are corresponding to rows and columns of the desire output matrix respectfully.

index_numeric: the index of the column which should be the values of the output matrix

color: the desire color for the generated heatmap. The input color sequense should follow the format generated by RColorBrewer library in R. the defult color set is brewer.pal(5,"Blues").

verbose: indicator for saving the generated heatmap plot as the .png file the defeault value is FALSE. In order to save the generated plot this value should be set to TRUE.


Example:
index_nominal = c(1,2)
index_numeric = c(3)
dt_mat <- PlotInput(dt, index_nominal, index_numeric)

Attention; the plot will be saved by name "Plot_missing.png" under the working directory.

2) ExtractNonMissing(x, shape = "Square",
                              verbose = FALSE,
                              color = NULL,
                              row.vars = NULL,
                              col.vars = NULL)
                              
                              
This function gets a matrix as input and apply re-ordering of the rows and columns to separates the non-missing values from the missing values and collect them in different blocks (modules). The output of the function is desirable shape of maximum non-missing subset of the dataset. The shape of the output can be specified by the user. Additionally, a heatmap plot of the re-ordered matrix is showen to the user.


x: a given matrix including the missing values. In case the row names and column names are not given an warning will be display.
Attention: the output of function PlotInputMatrix() can be used as the perfect input for x.

shape: an indicator for the output shape of maximum non missing values. The default is set to "Square" and it can be one of the following options:
      "Square": returns the biggest non-missing square sub matrix.
      "Rectangular_col": returns the biggest non-missing column-wise rectangular sub matrix
      "Rectangular_row": returns the biggest non-missing row-wise rectangular sub matrix
      "Rectangular_element_max": returns the biggest non-missing element-wise sub matrix which can be row                                    -wise or column-wise rectangular
      "All": returns a list including all the aformentioned outputs.
      
verbose: indicator for saving the generated heatmap plot as the .png file the defeault value is FALSE. In order to save the generated plot this value should be set to TRUE.  
Attention; the plot will be saved by name "arranged_missing.png" under the working directory.

color: the desire color for the generated heatmap. The input color sequense should follow the format generated by RColorBrewer library in R. the defult color set is brewer.pal(5,"Blues").

col.var and row.var: are the name of the samples on the columns and rows respectfully and need to be specified by user. The default values are set to NULL and in case of not specifying these items the "columns" and rows are pasted to the plotting function as x-axis and y-axis lables.
      
                        
                      
                        